The first bipolar junction transistor [BJT]  invented by William Shotkay,Walter Brattain and John Bardeen at Bell Labs
in 1947 but was published in 1948. Thus many texts differ the date of publication.
The word Transistor is a combination of the two words Transfer Varistor which describes their mode of operation way back in
their early days of electronics development.
Transistors are 3 terminal active devices made from different semiconductor materials which act like isolator or conductor 
if an amount of small signal voltage is applied. These 2 abilities allows transistor to obtain 2 functions:Switching [which
is applied in digital electronics] and amplifications [which is used in analogue electronics].
If we combine 2 individual signal diods back-to-back, it will be ecual to 2 PN junctions connected together which shares 
common P or common N terminal. This fusion creates 2 junctions by  3 layers and 3 terminals device which forms the basis 
of a BJT. These 3 terminals are known as the Emiteer [E],the base [B] and the Collector [C].
The bipolar transistor is NPN three, layer semiconductor terminals with an emitter and collector at the ends and the
Bipolar transistors are current regualting devices, which means it controls the current flowing through the Emitter to
Collector. As a small amount of current flows to the E terminal, a much larger C current formes the basis. 
The BJT is a semiconductor device which can be used for switching or amplification.
The bipolar transistor is NPN three, layer semiconductor terminals with an emitter and collector at the ends and the
base between. it has operates with 3 different modes:
1) Active mode: acts as an amplifier
2) Saturation mode:the transistor is fully on, operates as a switch
3) Cut off: the transistor is fully off, operates as a switch
There are 2 types of BJT [which depends on the physical arrangement of N and P semiconductors]: PNP & NPN.The operation
of these 2 types basicly is the same, the only differenece is their biasing and the polarity of the power supply for each type.



